# awesome
A curated list of awesome projects.

* [Aboriginal Linux](http://landley.net/aboriginal/): A shell script that builds
the smallest/simplest linux system capable of rebuilding itself from source code

* [Adelie Linux](https://www.adelielinux.org): A Free, Libre operating
environment based on the Linux kernel

* [agunix](
https://drewdevault.com/2017/05/05/Building-a-real-Linux-distro.html): Silver
Unix is a POSIX userspace focused on cutting the fat out of the typical modern
Unix userland

* [Alpine Linux](https://alpinelinux.org): a security-oriented, lightweight
Linux distribution based on musl libc and busybox

* [Alpine-S6](https://github.com/woahbase/alpine-s6): Alpine Linux Base + S6
Init System

* [android-toolchain-build](
https://github.com/redstar3894/android-toolchain-build): The new Android GNU
toolchain

* [apathy](https://github.com/mssx86/apathy): A 64 bit libre linux distribution
built from scratch using apathy-mlfs for its base; utilizing musl libc,
libressl, partially busybox and sysvinit with a home-brewed init structure
written in posix shell

* [apathy-mlfs](https://github.com/mssx86/apathy-mlfs): A libre linux from
scratch book utilizing musl libc, libressl, sysvinit and partially busybox

* [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org): A simple, lightweight distribution

* [ARM Cross Linux From Scratch (arm-clfs)](
https://github.com/predominant/arm-clfs): This repo, notes and instructions are
designed to build linux from scratch in a cross compiled manner, in support of
creating a stage1 tarball for Habitat Studio, for use with arm processors

* [Artix Linux](https://artixlinux.org): A rolling-release distribution, based
on Arch Linux that uses OpenRC, runit or s6 as init because PID1 must be simple,
secure and stable

* [Ataraxia Linux](https://ataraxialinux.github.io): An independent,
multi-platform, general purpose operating system, based on the Linux kernel,
musl libc and busybox

* [Automated Linux From Scratch (ALFS)](http://linuxfromscratch.org/alfs/): A
project that creates the generic framework for an extendable system builder and
package installer

* [Bare Linux](https://github.com/uggedal/bare): Barely a Linux

* [Baserock Linux](https://wiki.baserock.org/): A great way to build custom
appliance systems with Linux

* [Bedrock Linux](https://bedrocklinux.org): A meta Linux distribution which
allows users to utilize features from other, typically mutually exclusive
distributions

* [Beyond Linux From Scratch (BLFS)](http://linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/): A
project that continues where the LFS book finishes

* [Beyond Musl Linux From Scratch (BMLFS)](https://github.com/dslm4515/BMLFS):
Build Recipes for MLFS [Musl Linux From Scratch]

*  [bleeding-edge-toolchain](
https://github.com/FreddieChopin/bleeding-edge-toolchain): All-in-one script to
build bleeding-edge-toolchain for ARM microcontrollers

* [Bleeding Linux From Scratch](
https://islief.com/wiki/index.php/Bleeding_Linux_From_Scratch)

* [B/LFS-s6](
https://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-from-scratch-13/%5Bannoucement%5D-b-lfs-s6-project-4175510228/)

* [Bluedragon](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Hardened_musl/Bluedragon):
A security-enhanced, fully featured XFCE4 desktop, amd64 Gentoo system, built
with musl as its C standard library

* [bonsai](https://github.com/bonsai-linux/bonsai): A tiny Linux distribution
focused on simplicity and security

* [build-linux](https://github.com/MichielDerhaeg/build-linux): A short tutorial
about building Linux based operating systems

* [Buildroot](https://buildroot.org): A simple, efficient and easy-to-use tool
to generate embedded Linux systems through cross-compilation

* [Build Your Own Linux](http://www.buildyourownlinux.com): Walks users through
building a basic Linux distribution

* [Cavium](https://github.com/Cavium-Open-Source-Distributions): Cavium
Open-Source Distributions

* [Clear Linux OS](https://clearlinux.org): An open source, rolling release
Linux distribution optimized for performance and security, from the Cloud to the
Edge, designed for customization, and manageability

* [clfs-arm](https://github.com/LeeKyuHyuk/clfs-arm): A project that provides
you with step-by-step instructions for building your own customized Linux system
entirely from source on the ARM architecture

* [CloverOS](https://cloveros.ga/): Performance optimized default Gentoo install

* [Cross-Compiled Linux From Scratch (CLFS)](https://trac.clfs.org): A project
that provides you with step-by-step instructions for building your own
customized Linux system entirely from source

* [Crosstool-NG](http://crosstool-ng.github.io): A versatile (cross) toolchain
generator

* [Crux Linux](https://crux.nu): A lightweight Linux distribution for the x86-64
architecture targeted at experienced Linux users

* [Docker Linux From Scratch (DLFS)](https://github.com/reinterpretcat/lfs):
Docker configuration for building Linux From Scratch system

* [Dragora GNU/Linux-Libre](https://www.dragora.org/en/index.html): An
independent GNU/Linux-Libre distribution based on concepts of simplicity

* [EasyOS](https://easyos.org): An experimental Linux distribution

* [ELLCC](http://ellcc.org): A project using clang and the LLVM compiler
infrastructure

* [Embedded Linux Wiki](https://elinux.org): The purpose of this wiki is to
preserve and present information about the development and use of Linux in
embedded systems as well as open source projects and tools for general embedded
development

* [Funtoo Linux](https://www.funtoo.org/Welcome): A community-developed Linux
meta-distribution based upon Gentoo Linux

* [Gary OS](https://github.com/garybgenett/gary-os): GaryOS is an entire
GNU/Linux system in a single bootable file

* [Gentoo Linux](https://gentoo.org): A highly flexible, source-based Linux
distribution

* [GentooLTO](https://github.com/InBetweenNames/gentooLTO): A Gentoo Portage
configuration for building with -O3, Graphite, and LTO optimizations

* [gentoo-s6-services](https://github.com/rain-1/gentoo-s6-services)

* [glaucus](https://github.com/glaucuslinux/glaucus): A highly optimized and
extremely lightweight suckless Linux distribution built from scratch

* [Glendix](http://www.glendix.org/): An attempt at porting ideas from the Plan
9 operating system to Linux

* [GoboLinux](https://gobolinux.org): An alternative Linux distribution which
redefines the entire filesystem hierarchy

* [KISS](https://getkiss.org): An independent Linux distribution with a focus on
simplicity and the concept of "less is more"

* [KSLinux](https://github.com/Takeya-Yuki/KSLinux): A Linux Distribution Based
on GNU/Linux

* [LFS-s6](https://github.com/djlucas/LFS-s6): s6 scripts for LFS and BLFS

* [lh-bootstrap](https://skarnet.org/software/lh-bootstrap): A set of scripts
that build a disk image for a virtual machine such as QEMU

* [lightcube-bootstrap-musl](
https://github.com/jhuntwork/lightcube-bootstrap-musl): Scripts to bootstrap a
build environment for LightCube OS using musl libc

* [Lilala Linux](https://github.com/ilmich/lilala-linux): Minimal linux for
single board computer

* [Linaro](https://www.linaro.org): Together with Arm, Linaro co-maintains the
Arm software ecosystem, providing the tools, security and Linux kernel quality
needed for a solid base to differentiate on

* [Linux From Scratch (LFS)](http://linuxfromscratch.org): A project that
provides you with step-by-step instructions for building your own custom Linux
system, entirely from source code

* [Linux From Scratch Made (more) Easy (LFS-ME)](
https://github.com/FSMaxB/lfs-me): A simple, fakeroot based, package manager for
LFS heavily inspired by Archlinux' package management

* [Mere Linux](https://github.com/jhuntwork/merelinux): A lightweight,
server-centric Linux distribution using musl libc, pacman and s6

* [Metta OS](https://github.com/metta-systems/metta): A multimedia, mobile,
social OS

* [Minimal Linux Live (MLL)](http://minimal.idzona.com): A tiny educational
Linux distribution, which is designed to be built from scratch by using a collection of automated shell scripts

* [mkroot](https://github.com/landley/mkroot): Simple Linux build, bootable
under qemu for multiple architectures

* [Moebius](http://moebiuslinux.sourceforge.net/): Minimal Linux distribution
for your Raspberry PI

* [Morpheus Linux](https://morpheus.2f30.org): suckless linux distro

* [musl-cross](https://github.com/GregorR/musl-cross): A small suite of scripts
and patches for building musl libc cross compilers

* [musl-cross-make](https://github.com/richfelker/musl-cross-make): Simple
makefile-based build for musl cross compiler

* [Musl-LFS-s6-Bootscripts](https://github.com/dslm4515/MLFS-S6-Bootscripts):
Bootscripts to boot a MLFS/LFS system with s6 and s6-rc

* [Musl Linux From Scrath (MLFS)](https://github.com/dslm4515/Musl-LFS): Linux
From Scratch using Musl as Libc

* [muslpi](https://github.com/repk/muslpi): CLFS (Cross Linux From Scratch)
build system for raspberry pi using the musl libc

* [nenuzhnix](https://github.com/tpimh/nenuzhnix): The most useless linux distro

* [NetBSD](http://netbsd.org): A free, fast, secure, and highly portable
Unix-like Open Source operating system

* [noname linux](https://github.com/xhebox/noname-linux): musl based, x86_64
only, lightweight, personal distro 

* [Non-GNU toolchain](https://github.com/tpimh/ngtc): Build a toolchain that can
build Linux kernel, a minimal userspace (e.g. nenuzhnix) and ultimately itself
without using any GNU software

* [Obarun Linux](https://web.obarun.org): Arch Linux based system without
systemd

* [obarun-s6rcserv](https://github.com/Obarun/obarun-s6rcserv): s6-rc services

* [obarun-s6serv](https://github.com/Obarun/obarun-s6serv): s6 services

* [OpenBSD](https://www.openbsd.org): A FREE, multi-platform 4.4BSD-based
UNIX-like operating system

* [OpenEmbedded](http://www.openembedded.org/wiki/Main_Page): The build
framework for embedded Linux that offers a best-in-class cross-compile
environment and allows developers to create a complete Linux Distribution for
embedded systems

* [OpenMandriva](https://www.openmandriva.org): A full-featured Linux desktop
and server, sponsored by the OpenMandriva Association

* [OpenWrt](https://openwrt.org): A Linux operating system targeting embedded
devices

* [OSDev](https://wiki.osdev.org): This website provides information about the
creation of operating systems and serves as a community for those people
interested in OS creation

* [Panda Linux](https://github.com/PandaLinux/base-64): An open-source and free
operating system based on Debian/Ubuntu and built entirely by compiling
source-code, using custom optimizations

* [PiLFS](https://intestinate.com/pilfs): Linux From Scratch on the Raspberry Pi

* [Prelinux](https://github.com/mikejsavage/prelinux): A set of scripts to build
a minimal1 initrd and filesystem

* [pts-tcc](https://github.com/pts/pts-tcc): Tiny, self-contained C compiler
using TCC + uClibc

* [rc](https://github.com/smaeul/rc): s6/s6-rc service management database

* [rc-user](https://github.com/smaeul/rc-user): User s6-rc hierarchy meant for
use with https://github.com/smaeul/rc

* [rlsd2](http://rlsd2.dimakrasner.com/): A minimalistic GNU/Linux-libre distro

* [rv8.io](https://github.com/rv8-io): RISC-V simulator for x86-64

* [s6-boot](https://github.com/Obarun/s6-boot): Boot files for s6

* [s6-overlay](https://github.com/just-containers/s6-overlay): s6 overlay for
containers (includes execline, s6-linux-utils & a custom init)

* [Sabotage Linux](http://sabo.xyz): An experimental linux distribution based on
musl libc and busybox

* [solyste](https://framagit.org/Ypnose/solyste): [s]illy, [o]dd and
[l]ightweight [y]pnose's [st]atic [e]nvironment

* [Spark](https://fleshless.org/pages/spark.html): Spark is an Arch Linux
meta-distro with some core components swapped out

* [StarLinux](https://github.com/AwlsomeAlex/starlinux): A Linux Distribution
(rewritten from MLL) which can be build directly on the Host Machine

* [static linux (stali)](https://sta.li): stali is a static linux distribution
based on the original pre-2010 plans of the suckless.org project, however since
2018 it became independent from suckless.org and is maintained by Anselm solely

* [StelaLinux](https://github.com/AwlsomeAlex/stelalinux): A lightweight,
simple, and fast glibc/busybox/linux Distribution

* [T2](https://t2sde.org): A flexible Open Source System Development Environment
or Distribution Build Kit (others might even name it Meta Distribution)

* [TeoraLinux](https://github.com/AwlsomeAlex/TeoraLinux): An experimental Linux
Distribution with Musl, BusyBox, and Java

* [tomsrtbt](http://www.toms.net/rb/): The most GNU/Linux on 1 floppy disk

* [trinity](https://notabug.org/rain1/trinity): Toy linux distro based on
morpheus

* [Venom Linux](https://github.com/venomlinux): A source based linux
distribution originally built on top of LFS (Linux From Scratch) guide then
independently grows make it usable for daily use

* [Vine Linux](https://vinelinux.org/): A compact and lightweight Japanese Linux
distribution developed by Project Vine and many collaborators

* [Void Linux](https://voidlinux.org): A general purpose operating system, based
on the monolithic Linux® kernel

* [Warm Linux](https://github.com/WarmLinux): A lightweight Linux distribution
designed for container-like environments

* [Yocto Project](https://www.yoctoproject.org): An open source collaboration
project that helps developers create custom Linux-based systems regardless of
the hardware architecture

* [ZYDUX](https://github.com/rom1nux/zydux-forge): Toolbox to build the cross
compiler and minimal GNU Linux from scratch named ZYDUX

## Mirrors
This repository is mirrored on:

* [GitHub](https://github.com/firasuke/awesome)

* [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/firasuke/awesome)

* [NotABug](https://notabug.org/firasuke/awesome)

* [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/firasuke/awesome)

* [Framagit](https://framagit.org/firasuke/awesome)
